# Lint ideas

- Tool-independent e tool-dependent bad practices;

Scrivi le statistiche online e riassumile in grafici; poi linka l'approfondimento della bad practice online.

Due livelli di adapter tra core e user: un tool adapter e un IDE adapter.

Il lint potrebbe suggerire alcuni snippet idiomatici per problemi ricorrenti, quali: runnare i test più volte; however, this may not be feasible since it implies another kind of VSCode extension.

A button to automatically accept all the suggested modifications in a test case.

The license can be automatically generated by some online tool.

Official docs on [how to implement the lint as desired](https://code.visualstudio.com/api/language-extensions/programmatic-language-features#possible-actions-on-errors-or-warnings).

According to recommendation W.0, the lint may count the number of tests grouped by their intent and suggest to add a certain test case to respect the pyramid.

Regarding restyling analysis, the lint may suggest the creation of a method whenever a certain statement or snippet is duplicated. However, this feature is typically already proposed by the IDE.
When the developer tries to split the test case in logical parts, the lint may suggest either to add an explanatory comment ahead of the snippet, or to create a method with a pertinent name and Java-doc. The lint may also indicate that a test case should mirror a use case, so it should be divided in meaningful parts.

Regarding recommendation W.3, the lint may suggest some id names or discourage others.

## Design

VSCode provides two ways to implement an extension:

- Standalone: the extension just registers events and processes a given file;
- LSP: the extension is split in a client that interacts with the editor and forwards data to a server which processes them.

The second solution is more scalable than the first, since the computation workload is devoted to a server which is a separate process. Moreover, since LSP is standard, the server would work for any IDE that adheres to the standard.
Unfortunately, the LSP environment is quite recent, indeed it provides no compatible module to parse java or javascript files.

Therefore, the current implementation of the lint is standalone. In future, the lint should be migrated to LSP, as soon as modules like `vscode-languageserver-java` or similar get published.

Regarding recommendation R.W.8.0, you could just inspect the test suite to search for the existance of integration tests.
